!> TODO: duplicate this to `./docs/pages/overview.md` via Grunt.

# My first Ember application
Shopped around and decided on Ember over Angular or React. One, I can understand Ember for the most part. And many of our widgets at G5 are built in Ember.

The Ember project directory is `ember-learn` for now.
```
ember new ember-Learn
cd ember-learn
```
Inside you will find the following

- `.git/`
- `app/` the application files including templates
  - `./components/`
  - `./controllers/`
  - `./data/` manually added to start config for `ember-data`
    - primarily JSON for the client-side data storage. Could also contain templates stored as JSON, say as a theme.
    - also the API response destination for any vendor API configured, say a CouchDB or PostGres database.
  - `./help/`
  - `./helpers/`
  - `./models/` the `.js` part of a model
  - `./routes/` the `.js` part of a route
  - `./styles/` the default home of the application's stylesheets
  - `./templates/` the `.hbs` part of things Ember generates
    - `./*.hbs` handlebar templates connected to routes
    - `./application.hbs` the handlebar template for global elements like the header and footer
    - `./components/` the handlebar part of a generated component
  - `./app.js` imports the builders, exports the app
  - `./index.html` the HTML wrapper
  - `./resolver.js`
  - `./router.js` maps the URL routing that Ember is famous for
- `config/`
- `_docs/_`
- `public/` has the `robots.txt` and the favicon
- `tests/` When Ember generates a test, it lives here
- `vendor/` the home for non-add-on Add-ons
  - `./assemble/` the assemble tasks, config, and assets
  - `./cli-sass/` the source files for the `app/styles` stylesheets
    - the `ember-cli-sassOptions` plugin is configured as part of the module configuration for the `EmberApp` in the `build.js` file.
- `.editorconfig`
- `.ember-cli`
- `.eslintrc.js` something with lint
- `.travis.yml` something with travis
- `.watchmanconfig` something for watchman
- `ember-cli-build.js` the main file controlling the ember framework
- `_Gruntfile.js_` the grunt configuration file with task definitions
- `package-lock.json` All the Node modules installed
- `package.json` The declared package dependencies and their context managed as part of a Node App project, in this case, Ember
- `testem.js`

## Ember Generates
This section is about things generated by the `ember g` command, including `route`, `component`, etc.

### Route
Routes are page partials. Link to them thus
```
{{#link-to "routeName" class="menu-routeName"}}Route Name{{/link-to}}
```
They live in the `app/templates` and `app/routes` directories. That `class="menu-className"` may not be required. The routing is managed via the `app/router.js` file.
